Let's implement our CU data structure.
The very first thing we're going to do is the nice and simple peek, which simply tells us what is the
very first item in our queue.
So this dot first is what we want to peak into.
If I run my queue dot peak.
I should get.
No, because.
Well, there's absolutely nothing in our queue.
What about on Q or Q?
I'm not sure how to pronounce that.
Let's go with.
Thank you.
In there we want to add to our waitlist.
Again, similar to what we did with Stax.
We're going to create a new node, and we're going to instantiate this new node with a value.
Remember, we have the class here.
And this value is going to get added to a node that has this dot value and this dot next.
We then want to check and say, hey, if this dot length is equal to zero, that means there is nothing
in our queue.
Then simply say this first is going to equal the new node.
And same with this last, because there's only one node in our list.
This is very similar to what we implemented in the stack.
Otherwise.
We can say that this dot last.
Dot next.
So that is whatever is at the very last of the line and whatever the next value is, which initially
whatever is last is pointing to.
No, but we want to update that to say this time instead of pointing to null point the new node as the
last in line and we want to update this last to now equal the new node.
So that whatever was last in line is now pointing to the new node, and the new node is now last, which
is going to make sure that this last points to no.
Finally, we can't forget to increase the length by one.
And then we can just simply return.
This our data structure.
So let's have a look.
We want to create this line.
Q So all we're going to do is say we want to on Q.
Joy.
If I click Run.
First note I get joy with next null and last node is again joy with next null and length of one.
So far so good.
What if Matt comes and gets in line as well?
If we add Matt, we now have first node.
That is joy and last node that is Matt.
And you can see here that the first node of joy is pointing to the next node.
That is Matt.
All right, let's add a few more.
We'll add.
Pavel who just got in line, and then finally Samir a little bit late, but he got in line as well.
If I click Run.
Perfect.
Our last note is Samir.
We have a length of four and we have the joy node, which is the very first item in our queue.
Now let's say we open the door and we start letting people in.
We want to cue this list and go from the very first, first in, first out, all the way till the end.
Once again, it's very similar to a stack, except that we grab the node from the beginning instead
of at the end.
So we're first going to say if there's no this stuff first, if there's no first item, we can also
check the length here if we want.
So the list is empty.
In that case, just return.
No.
And by list I mean the queue.
If the queue is empty, then return.
No.
We also want to check if this is the last node in our queue so we can do something similar with what
we did in stacks.
We can say if this dot first equals this dot last.
Again, we can just check length here as well if we want.
But for now, that should be fine.
If that's the case, I want this last to equal.
NULL.
Remember, we make sure that now last points to null.
And regardless, as soon as we.
Q We want to say this dot first.
Equals this dot first dot next.
That is whoever is first.
Now, because we're going to remove joy we want who is ever after joy that is Matt to be in.
First priority now and then we simply say this length minus minus to decrease the length and we can
return.
This.
If I run this well, it's the same thing because we haven't run it here.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's first of all, run my cue dot peek to see who should be coming out of the queue.
And that is joy.
So if I do my cue, dot D cue and I click Run.
We see that now.
Matt is first in line.
Joye has been removed and length is of three.
And one thing to point out here, once we run DCPS here, we've completely lost the joy node from our
memory because we have no more reference to it.
Nothing is pointing to that memory space and JavaScript.
The way it works is going to garbage, collect and remove joy.
If we wanted to hold a pointer to Joy, then we could say Konst holding.
Pointer and say this dot first so that before we update whoever is first, we can reference it with
this variable so that we could potentially, if we still want to use joy, for example, in a waiting
list app, maybe we still want to do something to the user.
We can do this and still have access to the joy node.
All right, let's finish this queue.
Let's queue everybody from here.
If I do queue and let's return this back to this so we see what's happening.
If I run.
Now, Pavel is first in line and Samir is last in line if I click or if I had the queue again.
And I click Run.
Samir is the last person on the list, but then we can finally let him in as well.
There we go.
Now we have an empty queue and we've just implemented our own queue data structure.
Well done.
Hope you had fun.
I'll see you in the next video.